https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4087254034/

Product Analyst



Are you passionate about data and driving strategic growth?



This is an amazing opportunity with a London based FinTech who are scaling fast! I am looking for a Data Analyst to join the innovative Product Strategy team to own key metrics, deliver actionable insights, and collaborate with diverse stakeholders to make a real impact, read more!



What you’ll do:

Take ownership of critical metrics and lead key initiatives, driving business success by ensuring accurate conclusions and insights.
Analyse factors influencing customer retention and spending, assess the financial impact of initiatives, and identify opportunities for product optimisation and growth.
Deliver actionable recommendations to stakeholders, including the C-suite, with a focus on automating decision-making processes.
Develop scalable tools and solutions to support self-service analytics.
Collaborate with the data team to enhance technical capabilities and improve workflows.
Design and implement optimised data models in the data warehouse using DBT.


Requirements:

Over 4 years of experience in data analytics, ideally within product analytics or strategic data roles.
Advanced/ expert SQL skills and experience in building dashboards.
Strong business acumen with a track record in commercially or product-focused data environments.
A problem-solving mindset, with the ability to tackle undefined challenges and navigate an evolving roadmap.
Proactivity, resourcefulness, and the ability to deliver clear insights in ambiguous situations.
Excellent stakeholder management and communication skills, including presenting results to senior leadership.
A proven ability to build robust and reliable data sets with high levels of control.
Expertise in applying various analytics techniques, statistical analysis, A/B testing, and data visualisation tools.


Why join us?

You’ll be part of a forward-thinking team that values innovation, collaboration, and excellence. If you thrive in dynamic environments and love turning data into actionable strategies, please apply! You will need to be in the London office 3 days a week (Monday, Tuesday and Thursday).