https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4102938658/

Senior Cancer Data Insight Analyst

Partnership between Macmillan and NHS England National Cancer Registration and Analysis Service (NCRAS)

Permanent

Full time (34.5 hours), we are open to a conversation about how you work these hours

Home-based or split between NCRAS offices (London, Bristol and Leeds) and home-based (anywhere in the UK)

Salary Range - £45,000 to £50,500



About the role

Are you an experienced analyst who can translate questions on people living with cancer into high quality, robust data projects for a wide range of stakeholders? If so, we want to hear from you.



This role will support the development and delivery of a continued programme of work – a partnership between Macmillan Cancer Support and National Cancer Registration and Analysis Service (NCRAS) within NHS England. You’ll do this by undertaking statistical analyses, writing reports, creating data visualisations and briefing audiences in ways that make the complex easy to understand. You will develop and maintain excellent relationships with multiple stakeholders both internally (within Macmillan and NHS England) and externally.



More details on the role and requirements can be found in the full role profile.

Please note all candidates are subject to a criminal record check for this role. This cost will be covered by NHS England and all enhancements must be declared prior to the check.



About you

The successful candidate will demonstrate the following skills and experience:

Designing, managing and delivering high quality robust analysis
Understanding of the analysis of health and social care activity including patient level data sources
Ideally experience of working with cancer data
Experience of Oracle SQL for extracting data and R for analysis and dashboard creation.


Recruitment Process

The application closing date is Sunday, January 5th at 11:59pm, with an assessment task on Monday - Tuesday 13-14th January followed by if successful a virtual interview planned to take place on Monday 20th and Wednesday 22nd January.



To ensure fairness and consistency to select the best candidate for this role, all our applications are anonymised up until an interview has been confirmed.