Hybrid role: Two days per week in Guildford Park office

Salary: Circa £54,000 per annum

Who We Are

Allianz is a global insurance company serving across 70 different countries, but from the very first day you join our team you’ll know that your contributions are valued. We offer world class learning and career development opportunities, while we celebrate an inclusive culture.

 Role Purpose 

 Data Analyst Team Lead 

We are an agile team of data specialists delivering analytics, insight and data products to our market leading Engineering Inspection function. We’re the largest Engineering Inspection business in the UK, which means we have lots of IT and data legacy to work with, but we are on a transformation journey and have an incredible opportunity to create value, using the array of big data, analytics and data science tools available to us, our vast pool of data and deep industry expertise.

This is an exciting time in our industry. Success in the future will be for those who embrace technology, innovation and effectively exploit data, and we are positioning ourselves to lead. Our team sits at the heart of data driven transformation and we’re looking for a strong leader to motivate, develop and support the team on this exciting journey.

As the Data Analyst Team Lead you will enable the insight, process and data specialists to deliver on strategic projects, agile proofs-of-of value, ad hoc data exploration and data and insight activities. Reporting to the Data and Analytics Manager, you will have an incredible opportunity to hone your leadership skills and deliver on the Engineering Inspection Data Strategy to make a significant contribution to the future success of Allianz.

 Details 

 Lead a team of data and insight specialists, enabling them to perform timely and accurate analysis, provide business insight, and make recommendations to drive performance that will help hundreds of staff in supporting our customers, and influence our business strategy. 
 Build relationships and collaborate with stakeholders around the business to deliver value through the creation of data driven insight and data solutions to business problems. 
 Maintain the backlog of the AEIS Data team and manage the ad-hoc business requests and wider project-related requirements . 
 Deliver on the Engineering Inspection Data strategy with a specific focus on data culture and literacy. 
 Develop the skills and capabilities within the team. 
 Play a key role in the wider team, identifying process improvements and methods to increase staff engagement, efficiency and productivity. 
 Work with skilled professionals from IT, data and business teams across the UK organisation as well as other global Allianz entities. 
 Be able to understand and apply analytics outputs to the context of the business 
 Gain exposure to agile working methodologies and principles with a focus on maturing the team’s ways of working to increase engagement and productivity. 

About You

 Key Requirements: 

 Base level of numerical competence – bachelor’s degree in a numerate, scientific or computing subject (e.g. Computer Science, Business analytics, Data Science, Maths, Economics, Physics or equivalent) 
 Strong leadership skills and a track record of motivating and developing people 
 Experience working in a project environment or managing large items of work– ideally in the context of data 
 Demonstrated strong work ethic, results driven and able to hit deadlines 
 Highly organised and able to prioritise effectively in line with changing demands and timeline 
 Familiar with governance relating to use and storage of data 
 Experience in Analytics technologies: SAS, Tableau, Qlik, PowerBI, MicroStrategy or Cognos and practical experience of data manipulation and analysis 
 Self-motivated, with the confidence to influence and build relationships at all levels 
 Experience in presenting and stakeholder management 
 Great communication skills, team player, self-starter 

 Desirable: 

 Experience in leading data value management activities (Data governance, data quality, data ownership etc.) 
 Database concepts and tools 
 Thorough understanding of probability and statistics 

Please note that you must have the right to work and live in the UK. Sponsorship is not offered for this position. 

What We Will Offer You

Recognised and rewarded for a job well done, we have a range of flexible benefits for you to choose from- so you can pick a package that’s perfect for you. We also offer flexible working options, global career opportunities across the wider Allianz Group, and fantastic career development and training. That’s on top of enjoying all the benefits you’d expect from the world’s number one insurance brand, including:

 Competitive salary 
 Life cover x 4 basic salary 
 Flexible buy/sell holiday options – up to 5 days per holiday year 
 Development days and unlimited Learning & Development opportunities 
 A discount of up to 50% on a range of insurance products for you and your family including car, home, pet, and equine 
 Employee Support Programme 

 Our Ways of Working 

Do you need some flexibility with the hours you work? Let us know as part of your application and if it’s right for our customers, our business and for you, then we’ll do everything we can to make it happen.

Here at Allianz, we are signatories of the ABIs flexible working charter. We believe in supporting hybrid work patterns, which balance the needs of our customers, with your personal circumstances and our business requirements. Our aim with this is to help innovation, creativity, and you to thrive - Your work life balance is important to us.

 Our Purpose and Values 

We secure your future

 Be Brave | With Heart | Everyone Counts | Inspiring Trust 

Our purpose and values are more than just words on a website - they are the why and how of Allianz. They influence everything we do and guide us how to do it. Created by our people, for our people, they shape our culture, bring us together, and inspire us to be the best. Building an inclusive culture for us all to succeed.

Diversity & Inclusion

At Allianz, we value diversity and inclusion and back this up with our accreditations. Allianz is EDGE certified for gender inclusion, members of the Women in Finance Charter, members of the Stonewall Diversity Champion programme, signatories of Business in the Community’s Race at Work Charter, and an Armed Forces Covenant gold standard employer.

We have a range of employee networks focusing on gender inclusion, cultural diversity, LGBTQIA+, disability and long term health conditions (including neurodiversity), intergenerational and life stages, parents and carers, mental wellbeing, menopause support and armed forces and veterans, all supporting you to bring your best and authentic self to work.