Summary

What you'll do

As a leader in the sector digitally transforming services, Notting Hill Genesis recognises the importance of Data in achieving its vision. Our Data Analytics Team has an exciting opportunity for a Senior Business Intelligence Analyst who will be at the forefront of NHG's innovation in leveraging data to drive decision making and enhance operational efficiency.

How you'll do it

Develop complex solutions using a range of Business Intelligence techniques, whilst having a good understanding of any ethical considerations. 
Understand the internal and external context and demonstrate the benefits of Business Intelligence within NHG. 
Collaborate within a cross-function team to develop complex Business Intelligence solutions and outputs supporting the organization. 
Consistently make informed decisions in complex situations, communicate plans to management in simple non-technical language, adhere to, and help establish guidelines, and document new insights. 
Monitor business intelligence solutions to ensure they run effectively within established SLAs. 
The Ideal Candidate

We believe great service starts with great people, and we are committed to recruiting and developing passionate, enthusiastic, and talented individuals who can add value to our thriving organisation. 

BSc. in computer science, statistics, mathematics, or economics; or diploma / advanced diploma in a relevant analytical discipline
Experience of working within cross functional teams including data governance, information security, infrastructure and software engineering to design and deliver data products. 
Experience of cleansing, preparing, manipulating and transforming data to meet aims.
Experience of building business intelligence solutions through Power BI.
Experience of working with Azure and associated tools. 
What's in it for you?

Once you join us, you'll find plenty of opportunities to grow within our organisation. You'll also have access to a wide range of learning opportunities to help you achieve and maximise your potential. Benefits include: 

Excellent annual leave allowance and flexible working opportunities (qualifying period may apply) 
Generous pension scheme 
Enhanced maternity, paternity, and adoption pay in addition to statutory entitlements (qualifying period may apply) 
Employee assistance - free confidential advice and counselling services provided by independent specialist organisations. 
Health cash plan 
Staff discounts - we give our staff access to discounts at hundreds of major retailers, gyms, restaurants, entertainment, days out, insurance, and much more. 
Interest free loans - season ticket loan, tenancy deposit loan, and training loan 
Cycle to work scheme. 
Life Assurance x 4 annual salary
 All about us

Notting Hill Genesis is a not-for-profit organisation providing affordable homes for Londoners and it is now one of the largest housing associations in London. We are both a landlord and a developer, with more than 60,000 existing homes and 10,000 more in our pipeline and we employ around 1,500 staff. For more information on what we do and what makes us different please visit:https://group.nhg.org.uk/careers/ 

We welcome applications from everyone. We actively monitor the diversity of our workforce and strive to show equal representation throughout all levels of the organisation. We are a Stonewall Diversity Champion, a Disability Confident employer amongst other diversity commitments. 

To find out more about our approach to equality, diversity and inclusion please visit: https://group.nhg.org.uk/careers/diversity-is-our-strength/ 

Selection Process

Step 1: If you are interested, please send your application now! Closing date is 28 February 2025

Step 2: Successful candidates will be invited to an interview and assessment 

Please apply for this role online. If you are not able to apply online or if you have any reasonable adjustment requirements arising from a disability or medical condition to fully participate in the recruitment process, please discuss this with our hiring team via . 

Should a redeployee apply for this role, their application will be considered before any others. 

 NHG reserves the right to close this vacancy early if we receive sufficient applications for the role, so we advise you to submit your application at your earliest opportunity.