Quest Search & Selection are currently partnering with an entrepreneurial, scale-up, tech eCommerce platform specialised in consumer goods and last-mile delivery .

The Senior Data Analyst - Growth will collaborate across Marketing and Growth market teams in delivering insights that enable data-driven decision-making.



Key responsibilities of this Senior/Lead Data Analyst - Growth- Growth: 

Analyse key metrics related to customer acquisition, retention, and revenue generation to improve processes, customer satisfaction, and optimise cost-efficiency.
Collaborate with cross-functional teams to ensure KPIs align with business objectives, identifying areas for operational improvement and efficiency.
Create and maintain advanced data models using dbt to provide clarity on core business performance metrics.
Work closely with Marketing, Growth, and Finance teams to ensure data insights are clear, actionable, and drive performance improvements.
Use data-driven insights to develop practical, strategic solutions that enhance operations and support company growth.
Present complex data analyses to both technical and non-technical stakeholders, ensuring decisions are grounded by data.


Key requirements of Senior/Lead Data Analyst - Growth:

Ideally have 5 years + experience in analytics or data science, preferably in high-growth consumer, e-commerce or retail background .
The business is very open to experience in Investment Banking at a Senior Associate/VP level looking to join an entrepreneurial scale up business.
Expert proficiency in SQL and databases, with the ability to write structured and efficient queries on large data sets.
Experience with dbt, Python or R, is a plus.
You must have the full right to work in the UK (the business doesn’t offer sponsorship).
Development experience with BI platforms such as Looker, Tableau, or Power BI.
Skilled at conveying complex data insights in a clear, engaging manner, tailored to both technical and non-technical audiences.
Passionate about solving problems and thriving in dynamic, fast-paced environments.


Benefits included for Senior/Lead Data Analyst - Growth:

£65,000 - £85,000 - DOE
Comprehensive medical and dental insurance.
Company Shares
Hybrid role - 3 days in office
Employee discount.
Annual Bonus
Career growth opportunities.
Annual performance appraisal and bonus


This is a great opportunity if you have the right skill sets to be part of an entrepreneurial team and high-impact role where you’ll be directly involved in the company’s most critical operation. If this role is of interest, please today!