Digital Data and Technology (DDaT) is building an internal data capability within our Enterprise Services, End User Compute and Collaboration (EUC&C) Team. The team vision is "To empower HO staff by providing an outstanding designed user experience through the right IT products" and is responsible for ensuring that over 60k civil servants and suppliers have the IT tools to do their jobs including laptops, mobile devices, peripherals, print facilities, tooling such as M365, Co-pilot, voice and video service and contact centres.



In support of the provision of these products and to inform their roadmaps and backlogs, EUC&C require a thorough understanding of their users and the performance of the products. The Lead Data Analyst plays a pivotal role in helping shape how Data can better inform decision making and provide insight into product/service performance and return on Investment. You will have the unique opportunity to create a data strategy aligned with EUCC objectives and build a team.



As a Lead Data Analyst, you will have a genuine passion for analytics, an innovative mindset and need to question current methods of delivery to enhance our processes and to offer a different perspective. The Lead Data Analyst in End User Compute and Collaboration, you will lead and build a team on the exploration and exploitation of a range of complex data sets, analytical tools and techniques to support our product adoption, usage, efficiency and benefits realisation. This will include full and ongoing analysis of our end user and business services and products developed or delivered using corporate solutions such as Microsoft.



You will drive a wide set of innovative opportunities to explore; evaluate options, impacts, risks and solutions to provide clear problem definitions and inspiring full exploitation of new data and technology.



What You’ll Do:

Leading and developing a team to create data analysis on a set of products and services, analysing user and business behaviour for Home Office end user systems. which are proportionate to the business benefit and achieve significant impact.
Expanding the boundaries of what can be achieved using data, predicting patterns, mapping of user behaviour, product usage and emerging trends and areas of innovation both in government and industry..
Leading the management of workload and teams and creating the strategy for Data Analysis within End User Compute and Collaboration function.
Leading in identifying, collecting and migrating complex data and business questions to/from a range of systems, such as Microsoft 365, Oracle CRM, ServiceNow, Nextthink etc.
Developing knowledge of cutting-edge techniques and sharing knowledge of Data Analysis across the organization.
Presenting the results of data analysis to a range of stakeholders, including decision makers, senior management and making recommendations.
Promotion of data analysis within End User Compute and Collaboration to mature our products and services for the Home Office.


Essential skills:

Working with stakeholders to gather requirements and presenting complex ideas and recommendations that inform decisions in a clear way to technical and non-technical audiences and senior customers (storytelling).
Effectively leading and managing teams, helping them to apply a range of techniques to analyse data (e.g. trend, usage, and gap analysis, hypothesis testing, data matching, information retrieval, text analytics) and provide insight.
Leading conceptual, logical and physical data modelling, sharing knowledge of data cleansing and standardisation.
Identifying the business value for innovation within an organisation and advising on statistical methodologies and data analysis techniques.
Using tools such as SQL, python or R, dashboard solutions such as PowerBI.
An ability to understand people, products and business needs to support product managers and product owners.


Why join us:

At the Home Office, your work has real-world impact, shaping the safety and security of millions. We offer:

Meaningful Work: Contribute to critical national security and public service initiatives.
Career Growth: Benefit from tailored development frameworks and professional communities.
Flexible Working: Balance your professional and personal life with hybrid work options.
Diversity and Inclusion: Join a workplace where your unique background and talents are celebrated.


Benefits include:

Exceptional pension: Employer contribution of 28.97%.
Generous leave: 25 days annual leave (rising to 30 with service), 8 public holidays, and 1 day for the King’s Birthday.
Flexible working: Options include full-time, part-time, compressed hours, job sharing, and a hybrid model (minimum 60% on-site).
Learning and development: Access to training, technical accreditations, and funded qualifications (subject to approval).
Recognition and inclusion: A culture that champions diversity, enhanced parental leave schemes, annual bonuses, and recognition awards.


Learn more about our benefits: Benefits - Home Office Careers



Additional Information:

This role requires SC clearance. To meet national security vetting requirements, you must typically have been resident in the UK for at least five years. Unfortunately, we cannot sponsor visas.