Title: Data Scientist

Specifications: Permanent – Full Time

Salary: circa £55,000 per annum

Location: (Remote) based in the UK, Germany or Denmark.

Directorate: Publishing and Technology Directorate

Closing date: 11 February, 2025



As Cochrane’s Data Scientist, you will work with our technology, product and publishing teams to leverage data in supporting the work of Cochrane in advocating for evidence-informed health decision-making worldwide.



You will be involved in researching, analysing, presenting results, and recommending intelligent solutions to solve problems and address organisational challenges by applying knowledge of data analysis, critical-thinking skills, and healthcare experience/expertise. You will assist in assessing how data science (including Large Language Models and Artificial Intelligence) can help evolve evidence-based medicine, at the global leader for evidence synthesis.



Joining our team means becoming part of a mission to enhance global health through reliable, evidence-based practices. You'll collaborate with dedicated professionals and partners worldwide to ensure health decisions are informed by the best available data. Our core values — collaboration, relevance, integrity, and quality — guide all our actions. By joining us, you'll contribute to making a significant impact on health outcomes globally.



Don’t have every single qualification? We know that some people are less likely to apply for a job unless they are a perfect match. At Cochrane, we’re not looking for “perfect matches.” We’re looking to welcome people to our diverse, inclusive, and passionate workplace. So, if you’re excited about this role but don’t have every single qualification, we encourage you to apply anyway. Whether it’s this role or another one, you may be just the right candidate.



Our organization is built on four core values: Collaboration: Underpins everting we do, locally and globally. Relevant: The right evidence at the right time in the right format. Integrity: Independent and transparent. Quality: Reviewing and improving what we do, maintaining rigour and trust.

You can expect:

An opportunity to truly impact health globally
A flexible work environment
A comprehensive onboarding experience
An environment where people feel welcome, heard, and included, regardless of their differences


Cochrane welcomes applications from a wide range of perspectives, experiences, locations and backgrounds; diversity, equity and inclusion are key to our values.