Location

Basingstoke, GB

Department Name

CN Head of Performance (113600) G1

About Network Rail

Join Network Rail - Where People and Connections Matter

At Network Rail, we're dedicated to keeping passengers and freight moving safely and efficiently across the country. When you join us, you're not just part of a team - you're part of something that matters to millions. We believe that our people are at the heart of what we do, and every role plays a vital part in building a better, more connected railway. Click here to learn more.

We're committed to creating a diverse, inclusive workplace that reflects the communities we serve. To discover more about our ED&I commitments click here. We value flexibility and understand the importance of a healthy work-life balance. As a Disability Confident Leader, we'll do everything we can to accommodate any needs throughout the recruitment process.

If you're ready to make a real difference, we'd love to hear from you!

Brief Description

We are currently seeking a talented Route Performance Analyst to provide the route’s train performance reporting and insight requirements to support the business in making data-driven business decisions, with the aim of improving performance across the route

About The Role (External)

Key Accountabilities:

 Produce and distribute data required by the centre, Area General Managers’ teams, internal and external stakeholders for the monitoring and analysis of train performance.
 Provide the necessary data, information and analysis necessary to support performance improvement plans and strategies.
 Analyse and identify trends in performance using statistical analysis techniques.
 Act as a day –to-day central focus for performance improvement procedures and processes.
 Manage the route’s PfPI and Management Business Review (MBR) process.
 Manage the Performance systems in maintaining accurate, consistent, current and detailed performance information for the dissemination throughout the route.
 Carry out the role of ‘senior user’ of Performance Packages and monitor and review the functioning and integrity of performance data system.
 Follow the Performance Manual, maintain and develop it for all ongoing performance-reporting requests, in conjunction with the centre and other routes.
 Provide advice to internal and external stakeholders on Joint Performance Improvement Plans (JPIPs) and consequence of these in operator performance
 Develop joint performance reports with Network Performance and relevant operators
 Review Performance Improvement Plan and JPIP commentaries from operations to inform joint performance review


Job Skills, Experience and Qualifications:

Essential

 Educated to A level standard in English and Maths
 Intermediate/advanced knowledge of appropriate IT packages
 Strong analytical/statistical skills or aptitude
 Strong organisation and time management skills
 Full understanding of the PfPI process
 Good communication skills (verbal and written)
 Customer focused


Desirable

 Presentation skills
 Knowledge of railway performance management systems


How To Apply (External)

Salary: £35,582 - £40,367 Band 4B

Type: Permanent

Location: Basingstoke ROC

Closing date: 17th March 2025. - Late applications will not be accepted. Network Rail Southern Region retains the right to close the advert early depending on application volume.

Remote working opportunity! This role requires working in the office 3 days a week

Been referred by a friend, then please complete this form

Click apply now to apply.

You can visit Evenbreaks Career Hive for advice on accessibility support if you're unsure of the options available. Should you require any reasonable adjustments/modifications, please add a note to your application.

Network Rail Benefits - To find out about what benefits we offer, click here

All offers of employment are conditional upon satisfactory completion of pre-employment checks. Click here for more information

Some of our roles require face to face Drugs & Alcohol testing. Further details will be shared with you as part of your formal offer.****