Lead Performance Analyst

Croydon office location with Hybrid working

£55,000 to £60,000 per annum plus Civil Service Pension

Contract Type: Permanent

Position type: Full Time



We’re the Pension Protection Fund. We protect millions of people in the UK who belong to defined benefit pension schemes. When these schemes fail, we’re ready to help.



We do this by paying our members, by charging a levy and by investing sustainably. Our work has a real impact on people’s lives, so we strive to do it well, with integrity and their future in mind.



We are looking for a Lead Performance Analyst to join the team and be responsible for developing the performance frameworks (KPIs, goals, user needs and benefits) and analysis against the framework.



This role will be adapting the team’s approach to changes with the framework and wider appetites, ensuring that our members are at the heart of everything they do. This position forms part of a wider Performance Improvement team that helps support and identify opportunities that improve the products and services that the PPF provides to its members, and measure and assess the outcomes of any improvements made.



The team will work with a range of teams across the organisation to provide and maintain dashboards, forecasting and trends analysis that enables effective decision making, supports wider business objectives and influences strategic thinking.



Our ideal applicant will have demonstrable experience in creating and developing performance measurement frameworks and KPIs, along with experience in translating complex data from a variety of sources into meaningful insights that drive business strategy and goals. The successful applicant will have working knowledge of data visualisation tools such as Power BI/Tableau/Google Analytics, including strong SQL ability, specifically query build and using SQL Server Management Studio or equivalent. This role will lead a team, so previous experience of managing or mentoring a team is required.



Sound like you? Apply now.



In return for your skills, experience and commitment we’ll give you a challenging role within a business where you’ll get the support you need to develop your career.



We’ll also give you lots of opportunities for personal development and skills training.



Our Croydon office is just across the road from East Croydon station, which is around 15 minutes from Victoria or London Bridge, 10 minutes from Clapham Junction or half an hour from St Pancras.



We’re proud to be a Disability Confident Leader, the highest accreditation under the Disability Confident Scheme. If you have a disability and meet the essential criteria for this role you will be guaranteed an interview.



We embrace diverse talent welcoming people with different beliefs, backgrounds and ways of working. Whatever your background, and however you identify, you’ll be welcome here.



We’re happy to talk about flexible working



No agencies please