12-month secondment or fixed term contract

Location: Homebased or London office based

Salary: £48,710 per annum (excludes London weighting) or £52,894 per annum (includes London weighting)



About the role 

Are you passionate about driving organisational improvement and delivering meaningful change? Join our Programme Management Office team as a Senior Business Analyst and play a key role in shaping the future of the LGA.

Through our organisational wide change initiative, ‘Future LGA’, we are reviewing our functions to ensure our offer remains relevant for the sector we represent and continues to offer value for money to our membership during a time of significant change. Through this work, we continue to work towards a resilient and fit-for-the future, responsive organisation that continues to support members with agility and innovation.

As a Senior Business Analyst, you will support this work by leading business analysis activities across our portfolio of strategic change projects and programmes. Your role will be pivotal in helping the LGA achieve its strategic objectives by analysing business processes, identifying areas for improvement, and developing strategies to enhance efficiency and productivity.

Working closely with stakeholders at all levels, you’ll:

Gather insights and analyse data to develop solutions and improve processes.
Document business process models to illustrate current and future states.
Lead on the development of costed options appraisals and business cases, and support decision-making.
Design technical and process solutions, working with business functions to implement and test solutions.


About You

We’re looking for an experienced professional who can analyse complex business processes, identify opportunities for improvement, and deliver impactful solutions across our strategic projects and programmes.

With strong analytical and problem-solving skills, as well as excellent relationship development abilities, you will work collaboratively with cross-functional teams. You will need experience of working in a political environment, with a wide range of different internal and external stakeholders.

Our ideal candidate is somebody who:

Is a proactive problem-solver with excellent analytical and communication skills.
Has experience in business analysis, business process modelling, and stakeholder engagement.
Can manage a full project life cycle from feasibility study to implementation and sign-off.
Is adept at facilitating workshops, developing business models, and working collaboratively with teams using a customer-centred approach.
This is a fantastic opportunity to use your expertise to support transformation across a dynamic and influential organisation.



You must have the right to work in the UK, the LGA are unfortunately unable to offer sponsorship visas. Evidence for the right to work in the UK will be requested at the interview stage. 



About us

The Local Government Association (LGA) is the national membership body for local authorities. We work on behalf of our member councils to support, promote and improve local government. We are a politically led, cross-party organisation that works on behalf of councils to ensure local government has a strong, credible voice with national government. We influence and set the political agenda on the issues that matter to councils to help them deliver local solutions to national problems. We also provide councils with the tools and resources to respond to challenges present and emerging, and support improvement across the sector.

We value diversity and encourage applications from all sections of the community to this high-profile role.



To apply

If you would like to be considered for the role, please complete this offline application form which includes a supporting statement detailing how you meet the criteria of the role and email this to Recruitment@local.gov.uk before the closing date.

We are specifically assessing candidates against the following criteria:

Experience of supporting change projects/programmes, particularly in the development of ‘As Is’ and ‘To Be’ processes.
Experience of developing pragmatic and implementable target operating models.
Experience with working with a range of internal stakeholders to co-design new systems, structures and services.
Experience of developing robust, data driven business cases and option appraisals.


Closing Date: 5pm 28th of February 2025

Interview Date: W/C 10th of March

 

We use anonymous recruitment, which is the practice of hiding candidates’ identities. This process involves removing any identifying information from candidates’ applications which includes names.

 

At the LGA we celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees where everyone is treated with dignity and respect. Our recruitment decisions are based on fair, open competition, with appointment on merit. 

The LGA are proud to be awarded a “Disability Confident Leader”. Please contact us via HRandPayroll@local.gov.uk if you require a reasonable adjustment, which is a change to the format or conditions of the recruitment process to accommodate any disability-related needs you may have.

Our benefits

LGA annual leave entitlement is 29 days, rising to 31 days after three years’ service and to 33 days after five years’ service, plus all UK public holidays (pro rata for fixed term and part time contracts).*
Flexible & agile working – office-based staff are required to work in the LGA’s London office two days per week as a minimum, subject to business need and this may vary significantly between different roles and from week to week.
Future development – face-to-face and virtual courses are scheduled in line with developmental goals
The LGA offers 24/7 access to a free, confidential employee assistance programme managed by Health Assured. This service is also available for Dependants.
Family friendly policies
For more of LGA’s benefits and working with us, please view our webpage https://www.local.gov.uk/benefits-and-working-lga

 

Our values & behaviours 

Our Values and Behaviours are there to give us an understanding of who we are as an organisation and who we want to be. They are a framework to help us understand:

how we work with each other
how we work with our members and stakeholders
our expectations for ourselves and each other
Our values are:

Inclusive - We ensure that our work is inclusive of all voices.

Ambitious - We are ambitious for councils and their communities and are committed to striving for excellence in all that we do to support our colleagues, our membership and the sector to deliver the best possible outcomes.

Collaborative - We bring together the expertise and skills needed, working as one team.