Package Description

Job Reference: 21720

Band: D

Salary: Up to £72,000 depending on relevant skills, knowledge and experience. The expected salary range for this role reflects internal benchmarking and external market insights.

Contract type: Permanent role

Location: Office Base is London. This is a hybrid role and the successful candidate will balance office working with home working.

Role is mapped to Systems Engineer, Team Lead on our Career Path Framework. 

We’re happy to discuss flexible working. Please indicate your choice under the flexible working question in the application. There is no obligation to raise this at the application stage but if you wish to do so, you are welcome to. Flexible working will be part of the discussion at offer stage.

Excellent career progression – the BBC offers great opportunities for employees to seek new challenges and work in different areas of the organisation.

Unrivalled training and development opportunities – our in-house Academy hosts a wide range of internal and external courses and certification.

Benefits - We offer a negotiable salary package, a flexible 35-hour working week for work-life balance and 25 days annual leave with the option to buy an extra 5 days, a defined pension scheme and discounted dental, health care and gym. You can find out more about working at the BBC by selecting this link to our candidate pack .

If you need to discuss adjustments or access requirements for the interview process please contact the reasonable.adjustments@bbc.co.uk . For any general queries, please contact: bbchr@bbc.co.uk .

Job Introduction

The BBC Digital Distribution Team look after the Server and Storage platforms that many BBC internal and external workloads run on. It has many IaaS platforms, which are evolving to offer on-prem Cloud-like services. We manage and maintain an assortment of storage and server devices, with associated tools, in our many nation-wide data-centres, and dozens of worldwide locations.

Main Responsibilities

As An Automation And Analytics Team Lead, You Will

 Work independently and be self-motivated, and provide technical and architectural leadership to a team of other Automation Infrastructure Engineers, Developers and Analysts.
 Automate the provisioning, deployment, scaling and monitoring of the on-prem BBC IaaS virtualisation platform, virtual machines and other systems, managing resources efficiently via deployment of scalable infrastructure. This includes knowledge of containerisation, virtualisation, and orchestration tools.
 Develop libraries and scripts, to test and implement software tools or programs which will automate manual tasks, technical operations and other data-centre maintenance operations. Projects range from simple tasks like automating the creation of informational emails to identifying an infrastructure issue, to end to end automation of the Virtual Machine lifecycle from provisioning to decommission, or a script that will dynamically allocate resources
 Create any number of analytics dashboards, monitors and reports, using a combination of versatile vendor tools/applications and custom code
 Collaborate with tenants, Product Managers, developers, engineers, specialists, operations people and other Business Areas to brainstorm and come up with automation use cases, understand and implement applicable solutions to improve efficiency, synergise technology, simplify and create efficiency
 Produce, maintain and own the Automation Service that will provide the framework and tools so that automation services can be provided to the IaaS Infrastructure, Server Support and DBA Teams and other BBC Teams
 Maintain and continuously improve existing automation abilities, capabilities and techniques; use code repositories, CI/CD processes, and agile/SCRUM methodology
 Communicate with users of the automation tools or any of the automated output, to explain functionality to understand their needs, maintain a backlog of solutions and improvements to be implemented
 Perform retrospectives to improve delivery solutions, ensuring continuous improvements can be made to existing automation, analytics, alerting, reporting and/or processes
 Assist, guide and work with the IaaS Infrastructure team to provide an Infrastructure as Code implemented alternative hypervisor for the business to develop, produce, send to cloud, and bring back from cloud virtual workloads, using products like VMware, KVM, Nutanix and OpenShift Virtualisation
 Assist and guide the IaaS team to provide a containerised solution for the business to develop, produce, send to cloud, and bring back from cloud containerised workloads, using tools like OpenShift, Docker and Kubernetes. Being familiar with the CNCF landscape of tools for building Cloud Native applications. We are a large AWS customer.
 Assist and guide in the transformation of the IaaS Team from using a large number of manual Management Consoles for the various systems, to using more Infrastructure as Code; producing or assisting other teams to produce code to perform any task or infrastructure operation
 Design and develop automation processes and tools in various languages which may include Python, PowerShell, Yaml, Java, or similar programming language
 Lead in the maintenance and creation of applicable Automation and Analytics Team documentation
 Work closely with infrastructure, operations and development teams to identify and resolve any problems that may arise with the platform, and to work on additional helpdesk and or legacy tasks and responsibilities as assigned

Are you the right candidate?

You will be an experienced team lead within technical operations or systems engineer with demonstrable experience in producing solutions for Automation, Analytics, Reporting, Development, Site Reliability Engineering (SRE), and DevOps.

We would like to hear from you if you have some of the below additional skills/experience:

 VM’s - Systems Administration, Security, Deployment, Management and Patching on one or more of RHEL / Ubuntu / CentOS. RHEL Satellite Deployment, Admin, Maintenance. RHEL Server builds and hardening with Packer, Foreman and Ansible. All versions of Windows, and deployment with Windows System Centre Configuration Manager (SCCM)
 Containers - RHEL OpenShift / Docker / Kubernetes Implementation, Administration and Maintenance
 Infrastructure - VMware ESXI / vCenter / NSX, Nutanix, OpenShift Virtualisation; HP Dell and Supermicro server hardware
 Automation – Ansible / AAP / AWX Development, Administration, Management, Upgrades; Terraform
 Development - Python, PowerShell, Yaml, java, etc
 CI/CD and IoC - Terraform, Packer, Jenkins, Git
 Analytics / Dashboards / Reports – VMware Aria vRealise Operations, Grafana, Tableau

About The BBC

The BBC is committed to redeploying employees seeking suitable alternative employment within the BBC for different reasons and they will be given priority consideration ahead of other applicants. Priority consideration means for those employees seeking redeployment their application will be considered alongside anyone else at risk of redundancy, prior to any individuals being considered who are not at risk.

We don’t focus simply on what we do – we also care how we do it. Our values and the way we behave are important to us. Please make sure you’ve read about our values and behaviours here .

Diversity matters at the BBC. We have a working environment where we value and respect every individual's unique contribution, enabling all of our employees to thrive and achieve their full potential.

We want to attract the broadest range of talented people to be part of the BBC – whether that’s to contribute to our programming or our wide range of non-production roles. The more diverse our workforce, the better able we are to respond to and reflect our audiences in all their diversity.

We are committed to equality of opportunity and welcome applications from individuals, regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, socio-economic background, religion and/or belief. We will consider flexible working requests for all roles, unless operational requirements prevent otherwise.

To find out more about Diversity and Inclusion at the BBC, please click here.