Salary: From £42,000 per annum negotiable depending on experience + fantastic benefits

Jisc grade: TGE3 (internal use only)

Hours: 35 hours per week

Contract: Permanent

Reports into: Head of AI

Location: Hybrid - A blend of working from home and your nominated hub office, we have hubs in London, Bristol, Manchester and Oxford. Specific patterns for working in the office are not mandated, and the frequency of time worked in the office is agreed with your manager. Meeting in person is something we value so you may need to travel on occasion to any of our hub offices.



About Jisc:

Jisc is the UK digital, data and technology agency focused on tertiary education, research, and innovation. We are a not-for-profit organisation with a big ambition to improve lives through education and research by providing hardware, software, and networking solutions. Our talented people bring their own unique skills and experience to empower our members and customers with the technology they need to succeed. Take your next career step with us and you can make a real difference to the education and research sectors.



About the role:

This is an exciting opportunity to support the professional services functions of universities and colleges in enhancing their Artificial Intelligence maturity. Our focus is on delivering practical assistance and guidance to facilitate AI adoption across the tertiary education sector. You will collaborate closely with experts and senior professionals, contributing to impactful projects and gaining valuable experience in this rapidly evolving field.



Responsibilities will include:

Gain a thorough understanding of tertiary education professional services functions to support the provision of practical advice on AI and implementation.
Identify and assess the opportunities, challenges and barriers they face in implementing AI.
Conduct analysis across tertiary education professional services functions to identify priority areas for implementing AI.
Build a national picture through analysing individual institutions.
Create impactful practical AI guidance resources, for professional services staff across tertiary education.
Develop and maintain a good technical understanding of the latest artificial intelligence techniques, including approaches such as LLMs, diffusion multi-modal modes and retrieval augmented generation. Be able to explain these concepts to a non-technical audience.
Develop and maintain a deep understanding of artificial intelligence and how they can be leverages in universities and colleges, communicating your technical findings into actionable insights through training, presentations, reports, and blogs, both internally and externally.
Proactively review process and develop improvements within workstreams, including impact on team capacity, member satisfaction and objectives.


Key Skills and Experience:

Experience of leading and shaping deep institutional explorations to identify trends and barriers.
Experience of working with institutions to understand barriers and issues and create clearly defined user stories.
Experience of successfully problem solving and identifying effective solutions in complex organisations.
Broad understanding of AI approaches and technique, including generative AI models such as LLMs and diffusion models, and more traditional approaches such as classifiers, with a deeper understanding of specific areas.
Familiarity with a wide range of machine learning algorithms, including supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning techniques.
Understanding of AI ethics, fairness, and bias mitigation strategies, with a commitment to promoting responsible and explainable AI solutions and how this translates to institutional governance and policy.
Advanced analytical skills.
Strong stakeholder engagement and relationship building.
 

Don’t meet every single requirement?

We know that sometimes people can be put off applying for a job if they think they can’t tick every box, so we encourage you to apply even if you do not meet 100% of the requirements, but you feel this role is perfect for you. You may be just the right candidate for this or other roles!



Why work for us?

At Jisc, everyone plays a key role and gets the chance to feel part of it, that to us is the definition of a meaningful career. We want to create a culture of lifelong learning. You can look forward to a rewarding job with opportunities to develop and make a real difference to the education and research sectors.



We believe a balance between your personal and professional life is essential to your happiness and fulfilment. We work flexibly at Jisc and focus on outputs rather than presenteeism and are open to a whole range of ways of working.



It isn’t about how many hours you spend at home or at work; it’s about the flow you establish that brings energy to both parts of your life. Our hybrid working policy is flexible, and the frequency of time spent in your nominated office will vary across teams and job roles.



Take a look at our fantastic benefits! We offer:

Flexible work pattern, which can adapt to suit your schedules and personal commitments
31 days annual leave (plus bank holidays) that includes an additional three closure days over Christmas plus the opportunity to buy up to an additional 5 days
Generous flexible pension schemes
Protection benefit – life cover
Annual Jisc performance award
A range of wellbeing lifestyle benefits including company paid health care cash plan, employee assistance programme, mental health first aiders and support
A generous budget to support you with external learning and continuous professional development
Allocated allowance of up to £250 to equip your home office
Financial well-being support including access to preferential loan and savings plans, mortgage advice, will writing tools and support and resources to help you make the most of your money
The opportunity to donate to charity tax-free with our Payroll Giving benefit
Electric Car Lease Scheme and option to purchase SmartTech – spreading the cost of your everyday white goods and technology
A wide range of discounts from retailers and big-name high-street stores and CSSC membership
Family friendly policies including enhanced parental, maternity and paternity leave and opportunity for career breaks
Support your volunteering with up to 3 days volunteer leave
Cycle to work scheme and eye care scheme including free eye test vouchers and £70 towards new glasses for VDU use
Free flu vaccinations
Employee recognition awards and travel loans
A company culture which supports and promotes personal learning and development, including access to thousands of courses on LinkedIn Learning


Equity, diversity and inclusion:

At Jisc, we don’t look for ‘sameness’, but to truly include people who can add unique perspectives and experiences to our culture, and we are working hard to achieve progressive change. ‘Always inclusive’ is one of our six guiding principles which actively encourages us to bring our whole authentic selves to work. We believe that our commitment to equity, diversity and inclusion is fundamental to our success.



Jisc believes our people make all the difference in cultivating an inclusive culture that welcomes ideas, encourages innovation, and values belonging. We work with passionate colleagues to strengthen knowledge and awareness, provide learning and development opportunities, and foster multiple employee networks which create a sense of community and influence our policies and practice.



We work hard to create an equitable experience for our candidates and workforce which embraces all aspects of their identity including race and ethnicity, religion and belief, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, trans identities, age, class, disability, neurodivergence, or veteran status.



Application process:

We want you to showcase your talent throughout the recruitment process. Please let us know how we can best support you to do that; for example, if there are any reasonable adjustments we may be able to put in place. We will be happy to help you.



Just so you know, we review CVs as soon as we can and aim to provide an update on your application within 4 weeks of receiving it. However, you may hear from us a lot sooner, so please keep an eye out for our emails or calls!



If you are currently a Jisc employee, please apply through your Dayforce Employee profile.



Jisc has an active sponsor licence to recruit on a Skilled worker visa basis. Candidates wishing to apply who require sponsorship should determine the likelihood of obtaining a Certificate of Sponsorship for the role by assessing their circumstances against the relevant Home Office criteria. Jisc does not offer any financial re-imbursement towards the applicant costs, such as re-location, skilled worker visa and dependant costs or the immigration health charge.