https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4061889848/



Data Analyst / Subscriptions / PowerBI / Analytics / 



Location: Central London



Salary: Circa £50,000 - £70,000 + Package



Permanent



Currently recruiting for a growing digital client who are looking to hire a data analyst with strong subscriptions / audience experience along with expertise within PowerBI and analytics.



Broad responsibility role in a fast paced, innovative environment.



Will be comfortable engaging with various stakeholders and teams to provide reporting and ad-hoc analysis and insights within existing data warehouse and various data sources. These insights will provide a lot of value in driving forward the subscriptions arm of the business.



Experience within PowerBI development and visualisation including DAX and M is also key.



Please apply for more information on the client and full JD.



Responsibilities / Skills



Utilise data / insight analysis to support subscription growth
Create and define data models for automated reporting
Work on segmentations
Create new and enhance existing Power BI Reports
Determine and ensure correct data and analytics flows
Engage with audience and product stakeholders to collect and understand data and insight requirements.
Experience within data/audience analytics and Power BI development.
Strong experience with Adobe Analytics, GA, similar.
Strong Experience with marketing and targeting data from Social Media Platforms
Strong experience in Power BI development & visualizations including DAX and M as well as connecting to SQL and non-SQL data sources.
Strong experience in creating data models in Power BI and Power BI Service.
High level of attention to details and thoroughness.
Experienced in SQL to perform data quality assessments and ad hoc analysis.
Good understanding of data migration/ETL processes, data management, and relational data models.
Confident, motivated, proactive, focussed on business objectives and a strong communicator.
Ability to think data end-to-end.
Degree educated within numerical, science, computer science (desirable)