https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4102040051/

Data Analytics Specialist - Hybrid working/3 days in London office & 2 days home/remote - Salary Negotiable DOE £45,000 – 60,000 + bonus and benefits – Reference J12896

Fascinating new role; unique opportunity to be the driving force behind data for this boutique strategy consultancy in the education sector.

Our client is a boutique strategy consultancy specialising in the education sector helping operators and investors in education be more effective by applying a commercial view to their issues. They are seeking an experienced and commercially-minded Data Analytics Specialist to join their team, combining technical expertise with strategic vision to deliver powerful solutions and tailored products. Ideally you will be a strategic thinker with a solid foundation in data analytics methodologies and tools and a flair for identifying insights in a commercial context.

Please be advised that you will need to have full working rights for the UK, this client is unable to provide visa sponsorship now or at any point in the future.

Key Responsibilities

Work consultatively with internal stakeholders to identify needs and determine optimal data and analytics methodologies and products, working on projects end to end.
Serve as a trusted data expert, developing customised analytics tools and methodologies for projects and new data products that can be utilised across the entire education ecosystem
Innovate and advocate for best practices in analytics, keeping the team on the cutting edge of industry developments.
Take ownership of complex analytics projects and ensure high-quality, timely delivery leveraging advanced analytics techniques such as predictive modelling, segmentation, and root cause analysis.
Create and maintain robust, scalable, and efficient analytics solutions.
Advise on data manipulation and the most relevant analytical techniques, from Tableau dashboards to segmentation and root cause analysis.
Use data visualization tools and conduct deep dives into data, providing actionable insights that empower data-driven decision-making.


Required Skills & Experience:

2+ years’ experience in a data analytics role
Proven expertise in SQL
Strong skills in R, C++ or Python
Proficiency with data visualisation tools, preferably Tableau
Advanced knowledge of analytics techniques such as segmentation, predictive modelling and optimisation
Strong problem-solving skills with a proactive and curious mindset
Excellent communication and presentation skills for non-technical audiences
Experience managing end-to-end analytics projects in collaborative team settings