https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4119226745/

Data Scientist

X2 days a month in office (Surrey)



Xcede are delighted to be working with an incredibly data-rich organisation with over 3 million customers in the UK using their products. The company have a very established Data division headed up by well-regarded CDO who comes from a ‘hands on’ Data Science background. The Data Unit is filled with experienced Data Scientists, Analyst, Machine Learning Engineers, LLM specialists, and Data Engineers.



We’re now actively recruiting for another Data Scientist with an 'Analytics' leaning / background to join their team. Alongside building Machine learning models and other typical data science tasks, this scientist will ideally be experienced in using tools like Tableau and working on A/B testing at scale.



Given the quality of the team involved, instant exposure to more technical projects and colleagues, and the excellent working environment that this company provides, I would highly suggest that you get in touch to find out more if you're curious. This one won't be around for too long!



Responsibilities



Work with senior colleagues and internal stakeholders to spot business opportunities to leverage data science techniques and add business value.
Build relevant statistical / machine learning models related to said projects.
Contribute to the AB testing framework for this huge organisation from day one.
Communicate findings effectively to stakeholders to encourage adoption.
Find brilliant new ways of tackling their problems - innovation will be a key part of the job.


Requirements



A relatable STEM / Computer Science degree (ideally MSc and above but all backgrounds considered).
Excellent Python & SQL skills.
Commercial A/B testing experience (particularly useful if directly related to Marketing campaigns)
Strong Machine Learning & Statistical knowledge
Tableau experience (or indeed relevant other data visualisation skills) 
Spark and/or Databricks experience would be a lovely bonus.


If this role interests you and you would like to learn more, please apply here or contact us via niall.wharton@Xcede.com (feel free to include a CV for review).