https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4118718116/


Senior Data Analyst - Customer Data 

Salary up to £50,000

2 days office based 

Brighton and Hove, Sussex



Talent Hub are looking for an experienced Customer Data Analyst to join a thriving business based in Central Brighton. You will play a key part of their Customer Data strategy at an exciting time for this successful company.



Key responsibilities for this Senior Data Analyst job include:



Lead the reporting, insight and analytics for the organisation, focusing on customer data and story telling, providing pro-active reporting and actionable insights. With a strong emphasis on customer acquisition and engagement and optimising lifetime member value.
Regular monitoring and reporting on key customer data metrics.
Support and provide guidance on the development of campaign and overall performance reporting, actionable insight and data-driven models for use across the customer lifecycle (e.g. engagement, attrition, life-time value, segmentation and recommendations/next best action modelling).
Produce data visualizations to help support and communicate important learning.
Where possible, incorporate qualitative findings into quantitative reporting.


What you will need for this Senior Data Analyst job:



A background in Customer Data Analytics having worked for a membership or Customer Services, Business Services background.
Strong oral and written communication skills, with experience presenting data interpretation and insights to non-technical audiences.
Experience in using data storytelling techniques.
Knowledge of other data platforms such Microsoft Customer Insights, Microsoft Customer Data, Microsoft Fabric, social marketing insights, and email marketing analytics would be beneficial.
Experience in SQL, SAS, Python, or R programming.
Knowledge of web analytics tools would be helpful.
Some exposure to AI tools such as Co Pilot.
Line management or mentoring skills.


Benefits include: 

2 days office based
24 days holiday plus bank holidays,
healthcare,
hybrid working
plus lots of other perks!